live
yeah there we
go how's it
start with looking at some
experiments I'm on quite late
today goal is to
do 3ish showers maybe three a shower
stream uh and we're going to do some
work on the mooba maybe some work on
some other ends and a bunch of stuff hey
linky how's it going
okay no new runs on Saturday it
says let's see what we
have going on
we should have two
sweeps number one number
here is getting better we're going to
see if it how long it takes maybe it
should be able to figure something
better out
eventually we'll run for a while
and look at that perfect
timing we have a nice 2.1k
ELO set of
parameters so I guess what we're going
to do is we're going to look at these
set these as defaults train this
model and hopefully that will give us a
nice new policy to play with
we'll do some other stuff on the
environment today few other
things we be
good mainly though this will be
a few hours just to get a little bit of
Dev in um and then the main thing I'd be
working on this weekend is finally
finishing that video that will just free
up a lot of mental band
with I don't know if I'll be able to
finish it this weekend either it's a lot
of work it's a lot a lot of work
I got
um the final like camera footage for
that I'm going to have to
get I'm waiting until Sunday I got I
bought some lighting set up and I'm
going to hopefully be able to film that
in here we'll
see um but yeah it's it's like a pretty
extensive I it's like a 20 minute
script to have to do uh to go through
right pretty well
oh look there are all of our stats This
Is
Good
Hat okay these are our policies here
um we actually might want to train this
locally because we're not going to
really need to mess up this sweep yeah
we'll train this locally for now that'll
be
we are setting hyper parameters to these
ones which apparently are
good I'm a little bit concerned how low
the death reward uh how like small the
death penalty
is I guess it wasn't huge to begin
with but uh I mean I guess I could buy
it
what's the XP
reward very
low Tower reward is
high and then distance reward is 0.0
because that's what we set this to be we
wanted it to not be uh constrained
by having to
rush
basically and let's see the other prams
batch size is the same BPT Horizon of 16
is
good checkpoint in LEL
50 clip
coefficient where is this it goes from
o0 point that's a very low clip
coefficient uh
entropy very low
Lambda very reasonable
Lambda uh slightly
low oops did I just do that backwards
yes I did uh slightly low gamma but
higher than before is probably trending
in the correct
direction uh learning rate goes
substantially
lower probably a good thing and then Max
grad Norm uh also gets
lowered mini batch size stays the
same okay the value function
coefficients are actually like kind of
reasonable which is nice to
see that's the clip
coefficient so the clip is very
low uh and then the value function
coefficient
is kind kind of reasonable
here and that's
it and how long did this train for
232 we're actually going to use the
exact number just because
MOBA mode train VC
multiprocessing
just should do this just in case yeah
it's
and there we
go so whoops I guess this we have to
leave this up in the background I'll
just move
this I will just move this onto whoops
the other
screen working on hold on let me pull
the chat so I can see it working
on making spaces default policy faster
for non
ulated testing shows very slightly loss
some yeah well you have checks in the uh
the forward pass
basically
1K I don't know if it's 1K of how many
if it's even statistically
significant but yeah generally you want
to avoid doing stuff in the forward
pass that's like every
conditional every Loop
I'm trying to think what I want to even
do today because I uh the main thing I
had in my head was getting the video
stuff done and I made some decent
progress on
it there's a lot of stuff we can do I'm
trying to think if it's time to start
thinking about data structures in the
MOBA or if there things that
initially I still need to do on
Okay
so start a stream I guess uh yeah see
you in a few hours but I guess I'm gonna
at the start here I might as well talk
through uh some of my thoughts
on the environment stuff with
puffer
so there are a few issues at the moment
right there's kind of a lot of
boilerplate for each environment just
because of matching the puffer
API um the clients are really fast to
write in puffer I mean in uh in Python
but they're not super
performant uh we also
have the Sims themselves like the grid
system or whatever is kind of reused
everywhere and there are a bunch of bugs
that come up from um interacting with
the grid system and like leaving ghosts
on the field or
whatever so I think that
there's probably a reasonably easy way
to make I don't want to say like a full
engine because I actually really like
stuff like all this stuff working just
from scratch but maybe like the grid
itself can be a component or
something
um yeah there's like some there are a
few like structural things I think that
could be made easier across these
various different
environments uh the other thing is it
does annoy me not having these things be
like runnable on web and not having like
the debug tools right not having like a
basic debugger that plays nicely the
scon one looks okay but it's not really
what I want
um I at the same time I'm like do I
really want to just start porting all
these different Sims to
see is that the way to go
let's think about this what's left in
the MOBA that I haven't implemented
feature-wise
implement like maybe we want to add some
sort of vision
control
balance I mean really at this point it
just needs to look a little
nicer we need to see what strategies can
be learned on
it and clean it up a bit like we can
potentially add Vision later but pretty
much we have all the core stuff I wanted
with this
today I think it's a it's not a bad time
honestly for us to just like cuz I mean
logistically I'm only going to have like
three or so hours today to play with
some stuff I might be starting more Sims
next week I have existing
Sims uh outside of this mooba that like
also need to be finalized and Polished
up and their main things that bother me
are just a little bit of Jank around
like General API and
stuff
and a bit of stuff about the data
structures I'd
say yeah I'm trying think if this is the
highest priority thing with puffer at
the moment and I think that outside
of the video it kind of is like making
these environments really good really
stable really performant and really easy
to use and
run is kind of the most important
thing the only thing that really gives
me a pause at all is the fact that I've
basically told viewers like yeah go
ahead and just Implement stuff in cython
and that is correct like there is no
performance reason to not just do stuff
in scyon and for most devs it's going to
be
easier and I think even for me it'll be
easier maybe what I should do at the
moment you know what would be cool why
don't we go to the snake end for a bit
which is uh the sea snake en and see if
I can figure out ways to
like fix the little pieces that bother
me with how I had to implement that like
the things that I had to do and see that
I would have had easier in scon as well
as like the bindings to python let me
see if I can like make that project
really clean and
simple
because if I can make that if I can get
that project to the point where I'm
satisfied that
it's like uh as minimal as it can
be then I think from there it would be
quite easy to move more stuff to C and
the other nice thing is you can
technically even do it
incrementally
because yeah you can technically even do
things
incrementally because syon can import C
files right so I can just start like
putting utilities and stuff into C
and like making sure with the Moa stuff
is good I can probably incrementally
hard okay well I mean I think that
people generally like the low-l stuff
and um I mean not as much as me screwing
around with Graphics right but unless we
have folks like actively looking at the
graphics with me and helping on stuff I
think I'm going to look spend a little
bit of time looking at these for now uh
the one thing though before I do that
is it would be really nice to get GPU
Drive stuff
working but I kind of have other
experiments going at the moment and
we're sort of Hardware capped so I might
leave that for a few more
days
yeah I I want to do this for now because
this kind of affects my for how I'm
going to do stuff in the future
and um the the video is going to be
taking basically all my other mental
bandwidth uh over the weekend um I'm
hoping I actually can record at least a
few of the final clips for that over the
weekend
but I'm not confident I'll be able to do
that I only get the camera the camera
equipment on Sunday I don't know what
time
so basically before then I'm going to be
going through the script refining it
practicing it
and doing other basic video editing
things
okay let's start on let's start on a few
cool things and we have the MOBA and
training in the background while we're
looking at this but uh yeah let let's
start on a few things so I want two
windows
here we'll do like this
today some
okay I'm trying to think how I want to
change the
I think what I want to do
is snake.
pie C snake.
pie and then
let's see if this what happens here sea
snake has no
this okay so here is uh the snen running
in rib it's very
nice now we are going to want to make
these M's in
stuff I really do not want to have to
put Pi [ __ ] into
C so that's a no
maybe what do we think about this
versus I think I should start with what
I know and then see how simple it
is so the thing I know how to do at the
moment is I know how to do this from
scyon
right why is my desktop
complaining oh it's complaining cuz I'm
training a model that's
fine uh let me make sure we don't have
the best cooling setup at the moment let
me just make
sure we have uh temperatures that are
not about to shut me off due to
thermals oh that's not good at
all uh hold
I guess I can't be training models
locally until I get better
cooling that's
okay here's what I'm going to
do going to kill
that this will go back down to something
insane
again I'm going to make I'm just going
to run it over the other process on the
desktop
I yeah the problem is there's there are
no case fans at the moment and it's like
a mini ITX so it has a small cooler
well uh I guess I can't run this policy
for a
while that's okay we'll do something
else anyways we'll just do something
else let's just do the snake stuff uh
this will be important anyways and this
will get potentially change the
Moa I'm not dealing with this right now
okay so really what I want here
is like this thing maybe
do import
this this is going to take us a little
bit to figure out how to do
you have all these various different
variables and then you
do c snake star
snake
n and then you
do yeah this
right so you basically just write this
giant rapper thing
do you need to store any of these
variables
this uh Char
grid and I just tab like
this and then
obnoxious okay so now you have the
environment
right
snake yeah I'm messing with some C code
welcome I can look at some of the art
stuff too as as well now if you'd like
I'm just looking at some lowl stuff
trying to figure out some like because
like now we have people talking about
tower defenses we got people talking
about you know PVP Sims we've got
potentially artwork for stuff we've got
this I've got other people talking to me
about different environments so I'm
trying to figure out some of the lower
level stuff as to like how I'm going to
make it easier for everybody to organize
and contribute all these environments
without having like tons and tons and
tons of repeated buggy
code busy busy
yeah you
know I look at
Art I pull Discord
up let me look at this Frame that you
sent
okay I was actually thinking about um
I was thinking about the assets
and it would make sense I think that
there might be these actually might fit
the
Moa and I could use the puffers as
minions and then I could use your
Sprites as like the heroes since they're
like visually distinct and
such
um yeah I was thinking about doing
that do you think they're a spot where
it would be a good idea for me to import
them and play around with them at the
moment or um yeah what do you think we
should do with
that if you want to see what they look
like in the main game I'd be down to do
that if not I can just work on the C for
a bit
well plan on giving you full animation
sets
awesome I could do it with the Statics
at the moment cuz it'll like it would be
some work to load in the animation sets
in the first place cuz I have to do like
rib doesn't give you an animation system
I have to do it manually frame by frame
idle a cast attack death
hurt uh I think that if you want to like
just get something to start with the two
most important ones I honestly the most
important one is just the move animation
like I guess idle and move
right how do you do your animation sets
as well do you just do do uh Sprite
sheets or what do you do and also what's
the source res of these that's uh those
are two important things to
know I wouldn't mind doing this real
quick since you have cool art for me I
wouldn't mind real quick just taking a
look and seeing if I can import
that matches the current resolution for
sure uh it's going to be tiny on a 4K
you'd have to like exact upscale to
maintain the pixel like the pixel art
style 12 frames are under
perfect I think it's going to it's
substantially less than 12 isn't it like
how many are these
they're
nice 2X or 4X when doing yeah that's
fine I know it's like a total pain to do
it at higher res and then it's like hard
to like get pixel art consistent with
higher
res the only thing I was initially
worried about is like the fact that
we've got this kind of smooth like
Shader feel for the Moa and I don't know
how the pixel art uh conflicts maybe
with that but we'll load these in and
let's see
do you have these on a sheet at the
moment that I can uh do you have these
on like a transparent sheet 3232 or what
should I do load these
in I showed you the sheet that I had
before
right if you just have these in like any
reasonable format I can slot them in
real quick
imagine my 300 by 300 plus tarot
cards single sheet I mean I'll I'll show
you what I was going to do with them um
um oh I guess I have to change the
Sprite sheet don't
I yeah I have to change the Sprite sheet
anyways I'm going to have to like exact
upscale them uh photos get rid of
this cuz I think the source sheets for
the mm Mo
[Music]
or let me double check I'm pretty sure
the store sheet is 128 128 and then it
gets
downscaled so these are like the assets
I have at the moment I could just put
them in here right
sheet I can show you the way I've done
animations in the past for stuff but
like I think you'll know it's pretty
standard right like with animations I
just do them in a row so you basically
just like increment the position in the
Sprite sheet by whatever the the frame
size
is man in some way doing like pixel
animation is gets to be harder than
doing like 3D animation because you
can't like reuse
stuff as spr should have the option
well I mean the render engine that I
have is
um
custom it's not hard for me to figure
stuff out
ago oh you sent me
wow you actually holy hell I didn't
realize you did this many key frames
[ __ ] that must have taken a while thank
you oh what you did something with the
Stars as
well
wait this is
Sweet
see I've made animation systems before I
gotta I want more of these stupid things
in C because I don't know what it is
with scon it's like the code ends up
just being so un so hard to reuse
compared to see
but I should at some point I will make
like a render thing that has like a
little animation system so I I should be
able to support like variable timing or
whatever per frame
maybe but yeah these is great for now
this format's amazing for
now I mean I had like the assets I had
to work with before it was like I bought
a bunch of these assets and I had to do
all this work collating Sprite sheets it
was like thousands of like
procedural stuff things for the Sprite
sheets and then like I got to it and you
had to like overlay them in specific
orders that were not consistent and then
like specific frames had different
timings in
milliseconds yeah it was
rough this is nice and
easy engine Dev crazy is not
hard it's really not
hard I've been looking for reasons to
write more
don't [ __ ] with variable
timing repeat the cell
yeah uh careful with 100 millisecs
because it's
currently there are five and I could
change this technically but there
currently the environment runs at an
internal rate of five ticks per second
so if you're going to run 60 frames per
second that means you
have um
well I mean I guess it's the standard
like whatever 1 over 60
right but like 100 millisecond intervals
may or may not be available
basically I think if you wanted to do
like the really rough crunchy
animations and like you wanted to have
one frame per game tick then it would be
0.2 like it would be 200 milliseconds
but then if you wanted to do like proper
animation
it would be you know 12 12 key frames
and then the Whole Thing is. 2 seconds
but that's going to be really really
slow I mean that's going to be really
really fast for some of these so we'll
have to figure some stuff out but
regardless you would use raw c
yeah I like
C I mean I've been doing syon for a lot
of this and I've been wanting to Port
more of it into C so I can use it on the
web
plus it's just it's it's kind of
things I really I haven't written C in
like 10 years until this like little
snake project I did this is C right here
um yeah it's nice if you want to play
with it it's on the web like this is the
reason I do
it you can just go to puffer
Ai and there you go go here snake in
your browser played against RL
agents you can just play this yellow
snake Okay this
works
go so I'm sure that I'll have to fix
this but
like as far as a binding file goes I
could still use syon for it this would
be substantially less painful than the
corresponding p
bind it's still kind of
gross I don't really like it that much
but let me see what the render uh args
are withd height
colors and tile
I know I have been looking to just write
way more C I think I'm going to enjoy
that there well I may or may not there's
it's kind of conditional on me being
able to figure out there are a couple
small things I haven't figure been able
to figure out how to do and see yet like
cleanly pretty much the only thing I
haven't been able to figure out how to
do cleanly is manipulating um
multi-dimensional arrays if I can figure
out how to do that then like yeah C is
just as easy as anything else and like
very
this welcome YouTube
folks we're on late today because I have
to work uh on there's a video I'm
working on for the
channel take some time so I put in some
hours on that first but we're here we're
doing some cool lowl stuff I am
currently very confused with it but uh
we'll figure it out and I'm hoping we
can build something pretty
cool I'm essentially using the snake
game that I wrote which is way
simpler as an opportunity to figure out
if there are some infrastructure
improvements I can make to the
MOBA I was literally looking up DLC
Plus+ this morning yeah I that's this is
why I hate
C++ there's too much
[ __ ] I do not use C++ if I can at
all avoid it like
ever hooking it into my
simulation yeah you can make stuff run
nice and fast for sure I mean have you
seen the C have you seen the uh the
source code for the snake
game for uh have you seen the source
code for this
this is pretty nice for
Sims also what Sims are you working on
I'm curious to
know I'll link it to
you the main thing with puffer is Sims
Iran so there are multiple different
versions of uh the game in here but if
you want the one that is raw
C is not that bad right
here there's also a scon version that's
almost the same
from I built the Sim in C and the dlll
in C++
yeah I mean any like compiled language
without I forget if C has C does have
garbage collection right
but uh basically any like compiled
language without extra [ __ ] should
be able to be made fast for
Sims C def exter FR okay this is the
Annoying Thing
but this is annoying because it's
already typed
generalized multi-purpose simulator
has two s one rolls of
die on every core for X minutes many
times it's been a slot machine
okay I's see
interesting
cool fun to see people working on
various
do I have to add like this extra [ __ ]
header
H we have some simulations at work but
this is different the ones at work it
very are very specific I
see well one of the main things I'm
going to be doing with puffer um on the
business side is making it easier for
companies
to do high perf simulators and
simulations in a way that they can be
used incredibly efficiently with
reinforcement learning
I see so this needs to be
compiled
separately no I don't want to compile as
part of the scon module I have to
compile separately
stuck in windows Game Dev
World some of the windows platform
specific stuff is a
pain oh haven't come
yeah the linking stuff is a pain I'm
trying to figure this out I haven't like
this is not a space I work in very
frequently um I the reason I'm like
looking at making uh putting all the
Sims into C is because it makes them
easy to run on the web and like the
scyon code that I'm writing is
essentially one to one with what the C
would be I'm not using any fancy
features other than I like I have one
feature I like that's for um makes it
easy to work with multi-dimensional
arrays but other than that it's pretty
much just the same as the C would be so
I'm looking at this a porting option
like I did I did a trial right with the
snake Sim and this works really well so
I'm looking at porting more complex
stuff potentially
well hold on I can actually make it
compiled as part of this ithon for now
at
least that removes the problem of having
to
do dll
welcome do I have to include the whole
signature here
really I hope I don't actually have to
do this this because this is gross this
is like a gross amount of just header
stuff
[Music]
renderer
here cannot what is what is wrong with
all this stuff let's
see
so call with wrong number of arguments
I'm assuming this is just
the what is
this did it hallucinate this or is this
a real
Pam this looks hallucinated
no line
numbers there's a line number down here
this is like neim with a grand total of
two plugins
navigate well you just roughly guess
right like I can
do jump me to line 100 I guess there's
no line 100 go to 50
right and then I scroll around with the
keyboard I didn't feel like the I didn't
feel like the like six five six
characters of extra space on the left
column was worth
numbers I actually hate that there's
even a scroll bar here
game simulating
Snake and using ml to create the most
advanced snake
possible yeah the models the ones that I
have online by the way these are like
not good models so these snakes that
you're going to like These Guys these
are RL agents that run in your browser
but these are substantially nerfed
because I didn't want to implement all
of the layers that I would normally use
in C just yet so these are just MLPs uh
the real models that we train are convet
with lstms which are way way better but
you know this is this is good enough to
play around with in your browser for
now this will run on a phone as well
it's really
fast runs all the Nur on that's single
thread
fun so this should work
right compiler
disagrees one argument
actual what's the actual in it
function okay grid snake observations
lens pointer lifetimes color actions
[Music]
rewards uh oh there is a numb
snakes wait how did this
happen numb snakes width height Max
snake
length food
Vision corpse
reward
[Music]
okay and then is this signature like
different in scyon or something or in
the python
doesn't pass width and
height oh I guess you're supposed to get
it from the grid
shape that's moderately
annoying grid snake snake pointer
lifetimes actions
rewards in Num snakes
with
height I think this is it
right we're going to have to figure out
something with these headers like this
is a ridiculous amount of boiler
plate and I hate boiler
plate wrong number of arguments expect
did 19 got 17
forget welcome YouTube folks looks like
stream is warmed up nicely so uh
actually where
did South are you still
here I was going to add the uh the
artwork to the Moa but I don't have the
Sprite sheet I don't need the full
animation sheet I just need like the
individual frame ones to see how it
looks hey yeah I thought you were going
to send me just like this
on like whatever like this is um on like
transparent or
whatever technically I could probably
get it from this like should I just like
I don't know if you've changed them
should I like just download this and
then like try to Center them or do you
have them on like a Sprite type thing I
could
use if you send them I'll do it
live I'm just been like messing around
with this in the
meantime let me get you those thanks so
for viewers in the meantime what I'm
doing at the moment um there's like a
whole bunch of boilerplate and glue and
stuff at the moment that's required for
every single environment uh in puffer
lib I mean at least all the like the
low-level ones that are written in scon
or C or whatever and what I'm trying to
do at the moment is I'm taking the C
version of the snake environment that I
wrote and I'm writing the glue for that
and then I'm going to see if I can
reduce the amount of glue required to
the point that like I'm essentially
happy with this for puffer lib overall
and uh I'm going to see whether this
would make it less painful to maybe
maybe not committing to this but maybe
Port the Moa to RW SE we'll see
the SP the puffer Sprite sheet it's um
the yes the individual figures are 128
by 128 in the puffer Sprite sheet and
then I down scale them which probably
isn't a great idea cuz I don't know what
interpolation is being
used
um but I guess I can always just like
generate smaller Sprite sheets from a
128 one
grid snake
OBS snake
lifetimes wait snake
pointer snake
lifetimes colors
actions
[Music]
rewards snakes with height
snake
length food
Vision reward
food this should match
right are you able to use something
other than scon other libraries might
require less boil yes I can use anything
other than uh scon but I don't I
actually think the scon has like the
least amount of boiler plate
because otherwise you get into the
stupid like python C API and then you
basically you take your nice beautiful
Standalone C code and then you just [ __ ]
A bunch of like python like API nonsense
into it so I'd like I'd almost if I have
to have an extra layer I'd rather it
either be in python or in scon rather
than infecting the C
I mean this is just disgusting but the
thing that I really like about scyon you
see these memory views these make it
really easy to deal with numpy arrays
and like all the data structures that I
use in uh these simulators I allocate
them from python uh because they
actually get allocated into shared
memory so there there's actually like
there's a lot of stuff going on here um
when you're running the full training
syst you're allocating giant blocks of
shared memory and then slicing up the
addresses of the different areas of
those blocks and then you're sending
those blocks into the C code which is
then going to write into them so your
simulation is essentially occurring
directly in shared memory which allows
you to get like tens of gigabytes of
data per second onto the main process
it's pretty
cool this is alltech that is unique to
puffer as well
cool okay so
here cannot assign so this is where the
memory views conflict
can I just do and
personand does this
when did you
graduate least another three years of
grind recently switched to machine
learning uh I graduated this past
spring and since then I've been working
on puffer full-time puffer is
technically a
company uh we will be launching our
first potentially paid well our first
paid options soon uh but all the codes
open source and free so mostly this is
like let's just fix the field of reinfor
learning and all the terrible things
that are wrong with
it cannot take the address of a memory
view slice all right I'm going
to I give it 80% chance that this does
not help but maybe chat jippy knows like
some obscure piece of
documentation let me know if that okay
let me see if I can fix this one fix
this one thing and then I'll I'll check
that uh South
oh do you just go straight to the data
that's kind of obvious isn't
it okay I guess I'm just
dumb uh we'll fix this later I see what
I was doing wrong let's see uh this
Sprite
these it's pretty awesome
I love just being able to like Dev on
stuff and have artwork like cool artwork
appear that I can use to actually make
all these Sims look good this is pretty
awesome it's kind of cool in a way too
because it's like I know how to write my
own code I don't know how to do any of
this stuff I haven't even begun to
flex oh wa I can't do do hold
on I have to do uh
whoops the funny thing is I haven't
either on the code
yeah and
then
image
size we do resample nearest
neighbor hard
edges
okay that didn't work
it why the heck didn't that
work that looks garbage um it didn't
upscale your pixel art
correctly I forget what it is I I just
don't know what the setting is I thought
it was nearest neighbor hard edges but
it's not doing an exact upscale I know
how to write the code for this I just
like I have to move it over to Linux and
then like write a little script and
[Music]
whatever right do you know how to do
it I mean it's just like a it's just
like a replace like every pixel with
like four pixels type thing
right yeah because these look so much
better than the
well this looks like it's
right but then whatever for whatever
reason when I actually apply it it
doesn't
work like the preview is correct but
then the actual thing is wrong
done what did you do is it a Photoshop
setting or I guess you're an aspite
right so you're not going to all right
oh yeah those are so much better I
actually now that I can see your work
full size this is way way
nicer cuz before I could only see like
the shittily upscaled versions right so
these are way way
nicer do
this we do
what do I send
aspite is what is intended I
see I mean I hate all the Adobe stuff as
well it's just like it's kind of
convenient having all the stuff in one
spot cuz like I use I started using like
Premiere Pro for videos and then there's
like illustrator I got Photoshop which I
actually know how to use sort of like I
honestly hate all the Adobe [ __ ] though
but it's like freaking
industry see users we're going to load
this artwork in
so let's
do we have this gross UV map somewhere
in
here disgusting amount of shitty python
code here
14 so wait
it's it's six
through 6 through 10 and 11 through
15 here this is what I do when I'm
lazy CU I just
like can't be bothered remembering
so 11 is support which one is supposed
to be
spoiled honestly I'm not tempted by any
like I'm not really tempted by any of
the engines
really like rib I'm way happier just
like building [ __ ] in SE and shipping
it or I guess most of my stuff's in scon
but same
thing take that back look it's a great
tool for game devs it's great for game
devs but like I don't want to write
something in a script that's for that
engine right I don't want to be writing
stuff in GD script it's only for a front
end anyways so like I'd have to come up
with packet logic to like get the SIM
into the into that in the first place to
be able to do the front end I really
like
rayb with rust bindings I refuse to
touch rust I do not touch rust one
bit color coding Accord to your sim blue
is
tank
okay so this is blue is tank so X is 128
I believe and then Y
is bindings for many so the thing that
I'm doing is a little bit weird though
cuz these aren't games that are just
meant to be played by humans like the
Sim is a standalone that needs to run in
whatever language like C scon Python and
then like it's just the rendering and
user controls that are done in the
engine so it's much more decoupled than
you would typic
see I don't know maybe it would make
stuff easier
but for now it's been pretty easy just
writing my own stuff in
RB uh colorcoded blue blue is tank
orange is burst
so I go to
here 256
256 and
then green is support which is up
Assassin oh wait this
is wait red
is there's no
red I'm
confused thinkink is the carry though
pink
is
all
384 well you don't you just don't have a
red one right like you said oranges
burst oh wait why are there only
four did I miss one
on yeah I totally missed one my
bad my bad let me fix
that whoops working on a turn-based game
right now in gdau adding AI opponents
using Python and rust fairly
straightforward if your code is clean
depends what type of AI you're talking
about um if you want to do reinforcement
learning and you want to do it
effectively there are very specific
considerations if you just mean like
classic scripts or stuff then yeah
that's pretty that's very very easy by
comparison you can kind of do that in
whatever but yeah the um it's B
basically it's the RL side is a whole
different Beast
have I got to redo all these which is a
pain support
shrimp is in green which is 384 256
oh I can't but I can't see
the hold
256 uh assassin is red
which is
256 burst
is 128 256 and then
tank is 0 to 56 and
then
wait no this is carry
right yes which is
zero
yes and then what we do is we
copy copy these and then we relabel
these to be
Channel you can put it in gen would do
you want a
specific I find that the more channels
you add to discords like the just the
more garbage and like harder it is to
track stuff you can put stuff in gen and
if you post like you know so like if we
want to do like a big art update or
something on the announcements at some
point I'm more than happy to shout stuff
out there though really the
uh the larger views are YouTube and uh
Twitter for most of the
stuff God really screwed up my wrist
this
enough I can give you a roll or whatever
in the Discord if you want I need to
know if you care about
that obviously contributors get listed
on the main page including
nonte uh
holy [ __ ] look at
this uh I think that I need to the
towers are
Knights let me fix
that let me fix the towers being
Knights uh
okay here we
go this is with your art in
that's
sweet it's not going to look as good in
as um you know it needs the animations I
think more so because like the puffers
you can kind of get away with not having
them animated because they're kind of
just
Dopey like they're fish it would be
better if even those
swam moving oh well the shrimp it has a
a move speed buff
right so you can do
this and it also has like jump attack so
it can like do this you see like the
dash
AOE of course you're not very strong at
the
start these fit way more than I thought
that they would though I'll I'll give
you that like these fit way more than I
thought that they would
they're kind of small on the
screen I I guess I'm on a 1440p monitor
with no scaling up on this
but that's pretty
sweet that's pretty
sweet are they there are these agents
using neuronet models yeah of course
they all are hold on let me use a rest
from real quick I'll be right back and
we'll keep uh we got another hour and a
half of Devon Me Maybe maybe two we'll
going to need that animation player
right
now you have an animation player that
you can use yourself for Dev
right I just need to tell you that the
timings so let me give you this at the
time being so right now um the way that
I have right now the one issue is that
like the frame ints are a little bit
weird because technically the way I'm
doing it right now the animations are a
maximum of. 2 seconds which is like way
too uh way way way too fast
um I'm going to be able to fix
that but I'm going to have to think
about the animation system a little bit
and the reason for that is that the game
ticks themselves are. 2 seconds so there
are 12 frames in
between uh each game tick so like
technically yeah you can just slot the
12 animation like the set the animations
and they're just going to be really
really fast until I figure out how to
slow stuff down right and spread the
animations
out and I'll make some cool animation
system
cool there you go your stuff is now
added to the MOBA
officially once we actually like put the
anms in properly and do some stuff you
can feel free to DM me um however you
would like to be listed on the uh
contributors page though I do those in
batches it's a little bit annoying to
rebuild the
website I should fix that so it's just
like readed from a txt or
something let's go back to the C code
maybe for a little bit unless you have
other things to do with the art
immediately um how's the stream
doing very good cred ISM the job is done
fair
enough we're going to make some real
cool stuff here I'm going to leave your
artwork up
on we'll leave your artwork up here for
a bit on the
stream
oops how do I let's make make this nicer
let's just do
this let's
do
this this click
cool I actually like the it's so hard to
tell initially that the it's got like
the puffer fish head but once you see it
it's like it's so
funny it's so funny once you see
bikes are
tough
yeah you can use gdau as uh rendering
engine just a gdau fanboy yeah I mean I
thought about it but
like I've been using rayb and it's just
whoops I've been using RB and it's just
so nice like everything is simple
there's bindings for every language it's
not a framework it's really light weight
like you don't have to spend time
learning it you just learn it instantly
it's so easy to like onboard people to
the project with it it's just I love
this Library so
much so I mean this is the the
alternative right is using this
otherwise yeah I'd probably be doing it
in an engine and it would probably be
gdo
that's fair RB is pretty good for going
fast not only does it run pretty fast
but you also can code really fast in it
like yeah you don't have as many
features out of the box but it stays out
of your
way ever tried RL with transforma models
no and there's a good reason for that so
one there's the in there's an annoying
infrastructure limitation that makes
them pretty clunky to work with uh but
the much bigger issue is just that
they're slow and it's very very seldom
Justified to put a model that slow into
RL when you could just be consuming way
more data with a smaller model like DOTA
didn't need a Transformer DOTA was
solved with an
lstm um now arguably maybe you could
have done better with a Transformer but
who knows when you weigh like the cost
of the network being heavier versus
having more
samples what were the other status
effects oh yeah I you can totally go
replace these these do not match the
style whatsoever at all um it's we have
stun slow and speed at the
moment we just have stun slow and speed
and you can change how we display these
you can do whatever you want with them
um the idea is just yeah like there's
some icon or some IND some indicator
whatsoever of of these it can
technically be an animation that I'll
have to figure out how to slot in um
yeah but if you just even it just like a
single frame for now I can design these
currently I'm putting it like above and
to the left of their I'm putting it like
to the left of their health bar and
stuff we can really do whatever with
available see I've learned something no
worries and hey if you find any of my
stuff useful all the stuff I'm deving
like all the Sim stuff with RL
everything is free it's right here and
uh if you want to help me out for free
start the repo really all I ask we've
had amazing growth on this project this
is when I started working on it
full-time it's already done better than
all my PhD stuff combined and uh the
type of growth really helps us
out because there are going to be
product offerings
soon uh though they're going to be in a
way that I think nobody will be mad
about which just doing basically uh
extended support and stuff
for uh extended support for companies
that want to get more out of
puffer where in Discord did you put it
in gen or
Discord oh I'm so dumb
I'm so dumb I thought that okay I see
cool I the reason I didn't realize what
this was is I thought that this was like
an animation particle effect for the
towers right I thought it was like
you're going to like you were doing mini
stars to circle the tower
stars and I am cooked I am actually
freaking cooked with all the stuff I do
man I I don't know if it was last night
or I think it was two nights ago where I
was like ah I could have gotten more
work done today I don't think I got you
know a productive enough day in I should
be you know pushing for longer hours and
stuff and I had like eggs for dinner and
I looked down and i' picked up a pair of
Chopsticks to eat dinner with
oops only taking a couple RL electives
repo seem fairly beginner friendly yeah
it should be and the cool thing about
puffer is it's not just for beginners
like this exact same stuff will go from
cartpole to literally the most complex
stuff out there with the same code
there's also like there's not a whole
bunch of hidden stuff either you can
literally just read the full repo if you
wanted to or like the main code path of
it at least in an hour and at least get
an understanding of like the entire RL
stack it's also higher perf than almost
everything out there at the very least
there's nothing that's remotely as
simple as puffer that's this fast that's
definitely
true cannot convert python object Seas
snake
star
like I think I have to put all these
grid things back
here and then I have to
do Char star
at risk of starting the holy
war do you put your pointers with the
typer with the variable
name I'm undecided so far I haven't
written low-l code in so long that like
I don't know what I even used to do
type that is what I was that is what I
was doing and I think I might like it on
the type more apparently that's the C++
style which automatically makes me not
like it even though I think I would like
it
normally pointer is a typ modifier yeah
that's what I think
like but the thing is
like yeah I guess
it's I like it this way but the thing is
it's weird and
see
apparently but then again the sea style
guides are really freaking weird so who
knows
cannot convert python
object why
not assign type Char star to
float wait cannot assign
observations why is the auto complete
suddenly so
reasoning hasn't been thought
out if you want to see reasoning that
has not been thought out I present to
you the entire C++ programming
think worse than rust but not as bad as
C I'll give you that it's probably I'll
give you that idiomatic C++ is worse
than
rust
um I I take C over either of
granted there are a couple C things I
still need to figure out how to do
when you write C++ sure but when you
write C you should spend zero time
thinking about that
INT rust will just straight up tell
you yeah but rust enforces this like
weird freaking borrow check mechanic
that nobody asked
for and we'll just get in the way of you
writing code for
what happened
here on
N cannot convert python
object to se
snake cannot convert python object
this cannot convert python object to se
snake
man all the problems are always in
between the just between language
boundaries I don't know freaking let's
see if chat Jey knows
freaking hate having to use stupid
language models because half the time
you just they get garbage and you just
fight them for an hour
what's going on
here hold
on
oh yeah this is a scon this is a scon
difference okay
this is just a
um wait does it return
you it's malic
right so it can return you just the
skill I need the compiler I do get the
compiler to yell at me
though so okay I will give you one thing
if you're just using stand if you're
just compiling with
GCC like just standard yeah it's
terrible if you're compiling with clang
and you have FS if you have a sanit a
the the the address sanitizer on then
it's very
easy you absolutely need the address
sanitizer though
because otherwise if you didn't have
those tools then yeah I'd get why like
oh yeah memory management that's like an
issue that needs to be solved at the
language level but actually it's just
solved at the compiler level and in fact
you'll even get runtime checks for out
of bounds and stuff so that's not a
problem
either variable type SE snake is
incomplete
I guess you can't
have this has to just be like
this and
personand address s oh yeah okay that's
a game
changer yeah no it's a
huge yes if you
I hated C in undergrad I hated it was
the worst [ __ ] imaginable because they
didn't tell us that
existed yeah like writing code with
absolutely no ability to check array
bounds and like address like memory for
you is God awful but the thing is you
can solve it I like that you can solve
it at compile time uh and even runtime
you can just compile with extra Flags
rather than having to like clunky your
programming language Right add a whole
bunch of Jank to the programming
language to do
it type python object
really knit SE snake
pointers time to switch to Zig I looked
at it thus far I haven't seen a need for
it thus far I have not seen a need for
Zig and it seems to add it seems to make
C heavier which is
like I don't want heavy
C like the number of features I want on
top of c are very small basically you
see this feature right here this feature
right here where you can have um easier
ways to manage like multi-dimensional
arrays this is all I want give me this
I'm happy all I want
in fact if anybody knows a good way of
dealing with this type of data in C let
me know because this is the one thing
that's currently driving me crazy that I
can do in scon but not in C like when I
do this in C I have to I have to
manually compute the indices for like
the flat arrays and it drives me nuts
it's the only complaint I have
[Music]
cannot select attribute of incomplete
type SE
snake you have to do like
Arrow I don't know because it's yeah no
you can't do this in
scyon comp
time cross
wait if that's true B you can literally
use the zig build tool on C code
so honestly the r like the rust
Community is just like the arch
Community it's a bunch of technical
people who like really care about their
tools it's just like like is this really
the thing that you picked like was
memory safety the hill you wanted to die
on right like for Arch it's like was
rolling releases the hell you wanted to
die on really of all the problems you
could
solve I don't know about
that do you have to do a
zero
cannot incomplete type sea snake is so
weird
one language to rule them
all I don't know C and python stack is
very
nice syon is really good if I could just
compile scon to web assembly like I'd
probably be set
but JavaScript uh please no
please not
JavaScript you see that I'm writing C so
it can be on web this is because I
prefer to write C that to uh
JavaScript it would literally rather
write C than JavaScript
what do you use to compile the web
assembly M
scripton apparently there's now uh there
might be native support
now WM
no uh m scripton
e probably I could figure out a way to
speed them
up yeah they're a bit slow because you
have to transpile like it makes a 30,000
line C file and then compiles that which
is really obnoxious
I'm just going to paste errors into this
because this is literally just me not
knowing
oh I'm just
dumb this is like python rot
brain there we
go uh maybe not wait
file need the H
file does it not have the H file
this is the one other obnoxious thing
with
the
path you have to
export what's this stupid I'm still not
used to end
variables give me export
command for
if this thing decides not to respond I
deserve it for because I should really
just do this
I'll fix that in a second I'll be right
back restro real
quick
all
right hello
folks so what we're doing briefly is we
are we have a scyon version of a snake
environment originally written in Python
and then I also orted it to
C um so now what I'm trying to do is I'm
trying to see if I can get uh an easy
way to make bindings for this
environment to python
uh not just for the snake environment
the point here is currently that there's
a bunch of Jank that occurs for API
compatibility for integration between
Python and lower level stuff and I'm
using this s en as an
opportunity to see if I can make stuff
simpler and easier to work with and if I
can that's going to enable us to do some
lower level stuff with the mooba lower
level stuff with other M's and to to not
have such a bad time of all of it so
that's what we're looking at at the
moment and yeah let's keep figuring this
out of course this does involve uh a
number of just silly errors like me not
being able to compile stuff what OS is
this this is technically windows but not
really because this is all running in
WSL which is a bunto but it's inside of
a Docker container which is also a bunto
the docker container is puffer tank and
you can kind of just put that on
whatever machine and always have this
exact exact same Dev
not am I including this from the long
the wrong spot
oh yeah I am including it from the wrong
spot l
no okay now I'm
confused the path right environments
ocean snake
rayb Linux
[Music]
amd64 um
is there just more stuff that I have to
pass that I'm not
thing is if I compile it as a standalone
it gets
annoying it gets really annoying if I
try to compile it as a
standalone CU then I can't trigger
rebuild
path I think I just messed up the
library path let me just open a
new
terminal so there you asked about what
I'm using there you go so from WSL
starts the tank and then I have my nice
uh my nice container with all my stuff
in
ah that is
different appears to
type well we'll see what's uh whether
this messes up or
drawing this is just like the last one
in the file right
sh jeez how many freaking twitch Bots
are there that's
ridiculous it's like two a
maybe
this maybe I have to modify the setup
tools
okay so does this do it
uh there is nice size
snake environements
ocean
snake I don't know why I did it with
dots that was that's
symbol but hold on we're probably doing
something screwy from here
let's recompile let me make sure it's
actually
struct assignment to se snake from
incompatible pointers type sne snake
star
thought it was type
Deft it is type deft
R SE
snake struct
renderer is it like SE struck or
something weird
linked reset takes
see snake
type so this is like not getting defined
correctly
[Music]
somehow what wait this is like is there
supposed to be a valid error message
here because it's like The Arrow is not
lining up
invalid assignment from incompatible
pointer
type why is this carrot right here is it
supposed to be
oh jeez I can't tell where this is
supposed to
stupid but one of these pams looks
wrong about a
line and a bit
in
so probably like herish with height Max
selang
something like
that say
width
height Max snake
[Music]
Lang unsigned in
Star rewards view is a float
star then do I call all these with
[Music]
with the right views yes I
wait this is totally the type def thing
isn't
it is this valid is this like valid can
you do this
let me take this one out for now I think
that this will be good but not
yet okay so this was the one that was
buggy and now type dstruct
syntax error
like okay hold
on we're going to find
was right up here
somewhere assignment to struct se snake
star from incompatible pointer SE snake
star
okay so this thinks that this is a
struct instead of a type dat struct is
it like a c struct or
something is this actually for freaking
it are you got to be kidding me does
this now
work that's so [ __ ]
obnoxious apparently there is a keyword
which is C type
death that you need if you're going to
bind to a type def struct instead of a
normal struct I
guess g
okay so we still have this undefined
symbol but this now
compiles this now compiles cleanly at
least isn't learning
fun yeah I'm having so much fun
stupid undefined symbol and drawing okay
so this is like a link [ __ ]
thing right so this is why I was trying
to define the extension
is it like Dash L rib do I need to pass
this
do I
this do I see uh I don't see the flags being added
see uh I don't see the flags being added
here
flags I don't see elrb I don't see any
of the flags I just
specified so I'm guessing this is not
going to work because the flags weren't
used
build this extension so I can explicitly
link uh all the stuff that I need for
this
dash well hold on weird to have these
these two syntax
this oh there's the elrb
it got added
this okay so now it can set it up
again
[Music]
copying right
there I think this is the one it
wants let me try something
ah this one
works this one I believe
so it's just compiling to the wrong spot
let me look that
up but we figured it
out and actually if I can do this then
this will be really nice to
have 713 I got to hurry this up though
because I'm getting hungry
open uh SE snake
pi and we can see what's wrong with this
with this is what we're calling it with
and then this is the signature it's
expecting grid snakes observation
lengths pointers
lifetimes colors actions rewards food
Vision snake length corpse food Corpse
Death um that is weird because this
looks correct to
me let's see
correct one two three four five six
seven8
10 16 no it definitely takes
um definitely take 17
and wait
snake in a reset
yeah this is definitely correct and then
it comes from s snake
I might have uh I might
have gotten something wrong
these are
copies this one
okay so it's just not respecting the
output directory right
so that time it flashed the uh the
renderer up on the screen like a blank
canvas something's very weird with these
extensions
I'm trying to think how I want to do
this
oh it just I don't know where it did
with
dur it's just not it's this ARG is not
good I guess it's not doing anything
with this
this is the right way isn't
it yeah this is the right
oh that's stupid
I'll try specifying the package
location but I don't I don't understand
this thing I don't understand why the
hell it's like
here why is it like
this like seriously why does scyon eyes
behave different
when
you when you specify it one way versus
the
this I'm getting really hungry I'm going
to order food I'm going to keep working
on this though until food gets here
okay it's
there let me figure this out me to
Christmas is the
worst
um I'm just the thing like I'm not sure
is having to compile this through scon
and the like through pip in the first
place is
dumb
um we should just be able to build this
and freaking import it
you must declare them yourself isn't
that just
stupid like why do you need to redefine
something that already has a static
definition
though do I need to link is this what I
need to do do I need to compile it
separately then I'm still going to have
the problem with this stupid extension
thing I hate this like setup tools
extension because it like it screws up
where it puts the build
files hey JBL I'm trying to figure out
how to like I'm trying to fix us up some
infra so that we can have like nice ways
of dealing with all these different
environments and I'm even trying to
increase interoperability with C but I'm
just getting stuck on like compiling
stuff correctly here and it's such a
pain in the ass
I'm also starving so food should be here
soon
heck maybe I can do this as the C
extension
I'm just so conf confused as to how this
is supposed to
work yeah the funny thing is like this
is all python just being a pain in the
ass the C is easy isn't that [ __ ] that
like the python build system for this is
the thing that's the problem the C build
is
just watch your dissertation int the
puffer really cool stuff thank you
occasionally we end up just fighting
low-level Shenanigans here um but this
is what's required to get this stuff to
work so what I'm trying to figure out
how to do now is I'm trying to make a
nice way to have like really complex and
interesting M's that can be written in C
or scyon or whatever and have them play
nice with puffer lib really really fast
we have all this working at the moment
in scyon we have it separately working
in C but there's just a lot of overhead
in Jank and I want this to be a really
easy way for people to do lots of
rlms high level approach to trying to
find the simplest system to create
interesting Behavior really reminds
Steve games creatures funny enough he's
trying lowle now H yeah I you know like
all the stuff from neural MMO was fine
and correct it's just like it needed to
be implemented faster is all it is
python is just too slow for something
like that that was the main issue there
were a few other design things with
neural MMO that really held the project
back that I had no way of knowing I
don't think anybody knew back then um
there's more stuff for neural MMO that
will be coming as well uh and more
generally like lots of stuff for complex
Sims we're already like a 100 to a
thousand times faster than any of the
stuff I did in my thesis and just three
months later so things are moving way
way way faster now I'm out of
maybe this is still going to put the
damn code in the wrong directory though
we have lots more um lots more stuff
coming as well with um simulators in
fact we're now have we've gotten to the
point where it's easy enough that many
viewers are starting to look at like
building M's and stuff for puffer and
it's relatively straightforward to do
and it's only getting easier so like
right now things like uh arcade game
level are pretty easy to build um I'm
building stuff like you know the MOBA
I'm building all sorts of other Sims but
uh soon it's going to be easier for
people to do that type of stuff as
well and just to get a few of the issues
out of here
o starting to look more into po past
month focused
on p i
[Music]
nns physics
informed physics informed neural works
is this what
[Music]
you can actually encode symmetries in
matter conservation okay that's
interesting
that's very
interesting Material Science looking to
simplify complex models with
ML rarely does ML simplify things but
sometimes those look interesting I
hadn't I don't know I haven't seen
uh I haven't seen those
do you have to re-include everything
like
that a r r
CS for
I mean this isn't going to work for me
either I need a local
oh you can do it in one
step you can apparently do it in one
step with clang very nice
what
um does this need to have something else
can command
Flags Okay uh there's lib snake.
Soo there's lib lib snake.
Soo
so where's food hold
on food is here in roughly 10 minutes or
so I'm going to see how if I can make
any progress on this but uh
likely we'll have to pick this up next
week and I'm going to be grinding on the
the video as much as I can over the
weekend see if I can get close to
finishing that that's really got to be
done
soon main
Li snake
here this just has to be Library
snake right
does this actually work here if this
works this would be
amazing I don't think it will
cuz I hate this extension thing
here it's just really obnoxious it like
doesn't work ever
then we just take this extension
here put this up here just in case we
need
so unknown option extra compile args
building SI
snake. anyone here have experience with
NCA make ruce models in certain
applications
there's some aive people I know that do
um this is a really cool
project Kevin
prance this is a really cool
he really undersold it here this is not
an order of magnitude faster it's like a
ton of orders of magnitude faster
I'm not seeing the uh the linked Library
here so I think it's not linking my
library
so
interestingly we still get the undefined
symbol
issue this seg faults well you can't do
that with a shared library right I'm
going to have to like take some time to
really understand the build system here
both the C build system and how it
interacts with python
unfortunately um I guess in the meantime
we can take a quick look
at our train
runs which we'll pick back
up uh next
week so we have this one and we have
this one
right so for Space
Invaders oh it's actually it's starting
to take off a little bit you can
see I think we'll get some uh some
better runs than this we still have
another 200 experiments to go uh the
slope is not the best here you'd think
it would find some better stuff but you
never know and
then here we are at 2168 ELO
so looks like it found a slightly better
one than before this is a nicer shape to
it looks like we will have some nice
Bots for the MOA at least so that is
good to
know but yeah I'm going to
be man as soon as I finish this video
the dev speed is going to pick back up a
ton because I'm just I'm losing so many
hours a week to having to do this stuff
and I really want to have I need more
time in the week
because I usually have like an off
stream day a week where I'll just like
try to figure out some like kind of this
type of stuff which is really boring to
watch and I haven't been able to do that
so I've had to do a little of it on
stream but it's really not
great so yeah I'm hoping that soon uh
I'll just finish this video and we'll be
set there but
anyways um if you haven't seen this
demo this is what's on the table it's
being able to run whatever types of M we
want in the browser with the agents just
running live like this this will run
anywhere you can run it locally you can
run it on the web you can do whatever
you want with it you can interact with
the agents it's really nice it's really
fast uh imagine having the mobile work
like this right and this and everything
else in my work is all open source it's
right here it's on the puffer GitHub I
will link
this if you want to help me out for free
give the repo a star helps me a
ton
um other than that we have a Discord
discord.gg puffer we have all sorts of
people making cool environments and
simulators and things around puffer so
if you'd like to do that and potentially
get some assistance on that as well
really great way to learn ultra high
perf Dev uh really you just need to have
some sort of decent software engineering
background and you know a little bit of
spare time let me know on that and
otherwise I will see you next week
thanks everyone